- [Instructor] The Proxy pattern is another one
of those behavioral patterns that you can see used
throughout the entire Spring library.
As a matter of fact, each and every bean
that you create gets at least one proxy
wrapped around it ever since Spring 4.
Additional proxies are added,
usually through the use of annotations
when you are writing Spring code using the Spring framework.
Now, if you want to create your own proxies
and you're doing Spring development,
you're usually going to do this by the creation
of an aspect and using aspect-oriented programming.
I have a lot of information about how to write aspects
and how to use them
in my course, Spring: Framework in Depth,
and as such, we're not going to jump into that in this course.
The way the proxy pattern works in a nutshell,
is that you start with the use of an intermediate object
in place of a real object.
Now, what does that really mean?
Both of these objects, the intermediary object
and the real object will share the same interface
but all of your work happens on the intermediary object
and the real object just waited
until we actually have to act on it.
And this is because the intermediary object
protects the real object and protects your run time.
The intermediary controls the instantiation
and use of the real object.
And the intermediary can add behavior to the real object
as it sees fit, depending on which type
of a proxy you're writing.
Now, why might you go about doing this?
Often times, you will use an intermediary
or a proxy when the operations on the real object
are very, very expensive.
And you need to protect that and make sure
that it is only called when absolutely needed.
Also, you would use a proxy if you need to add behavior
to a method or to multiple methods before they are called
under certain situations.
And finally, one of the use cases
that you find often, in older Java code,
is if you have to do remote object access.
You would want to wrap that remote object
with a local proxy, do all of your work with the local proxy
and only make the remote call when you absolutely had to
because of the cost associated with that network latency.
So how do you go about creating a proxy?
You're going to start with an interface.
You're going to create two objects.
The first is the real object
and that's going to extend the interface.
The second object also extends that same interface
but in addition to extending the interface,
it keeps a handle to the real object.
And finally, you create the object,
you add the behavior and other protections as needed
within the proxy object itself.
This way you control the entire life cycle
of the real object within the proxy
so that there's no confusion
about which object is doing what.
Now, I alluded to a little bit before
about the implementation
and why we're not going to get into one in this course.
So when doing Spring development, seldom if ever,
would you use a raw Java proxy
because you don't really have to.
What you would do is leverage aspect-oriented programming
and in doing so you are going to create an aspect
and everything that comes with it.
The pointcut and the joinpoint
and that's beyond the scope of this course.
But as I mentioned, I do have a course
where I talk all about how to create aspects
and I encourage you to take a look at that.
However, there are aspects that you can use in Spring
and often you will use in Spring
to do exactly what you need to with a proxy,
things like @Transactional
to create transactional boundaries
in database operations, and @Cacheable to store data
in a local cache or distributed cache.
And there's several others that come with the framework.
Again, all of these follow the same pattern,
they provide a proxy that adds behavior to your object
while isolating it through the use of a shared interface.